[AZINTS-3391] add azure storage monitoring setup (#28861)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/integrations/guide/storage-monitoring-setup.md

---
title: Storage Monitoring for Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage, and Azure Blob Storage
private: true
---

<div class="alert alert-info">Storage Monitoring is in Preview.</div>

## Overview

> Storage Monitoring for Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage, and Azure Blob Storage provides deep, prefix-level analytics to help you understand exactly how your storage is being used, detect potential issues before they impact operations, and make data-driven decisions about storage optimization. Use these insights to help you track storage growth, investigate access patterns, and optimize costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Storage Monitoring for Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage, and Azure Blob Storage provides deep, prefix-level analytics to help you understand exactly how your storage is being used. It also detect potential issues before they impact operations, and make data-driven decisions about storage optimization. Use these insights to help you track storage growth, investigate access patterns, and optimize costs.
```
Splitting the sentence to make it easier to follow

This guide explains how to configure Storage Monitoring in Datadog for your S3 buckets, GCS buckets, and Azure Storage Accounts.

> Access your Storage Monitoring data by navigating to **Infrastructure -> Storage Monitoring**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access your Storage Monitoring data by navigating to **Infrastructure > Storage Monitoring**.
```

[2]: https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/insights/using-inventory-reports#enable_the_api
[3]: https://forms.gle/c7b8JiLENDaUEqGk8

## Setup for Azure Blob Storage

### Installation

To set up Storage Monitoring for Azure Blob Storage, follow these steps:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Azure CLI" %}}

To enable inventories for the selected storage accounts in each subscription, run the following script in your [Azure Cloud Shell][301]: 

```shell
curl https://datadogstoragemonitoring.blob.core.windows.net/scripts/install.sh \
  | bash -s -- <client_id> <subscription_id> <comma_separated_storage_account_names>
```

> Ensure your [shell environment][302] is set to Bash before running the script. Ensure that the you replace the various placeholder inputs with the correct values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before running the script, set your [shell environment][302] to Bash and replace the various placeholder inputs with the correct values:
```

- `<client_id>`: The client ID of an App Registration already set up using the [Datadog Azure integration][302]
- `<subscription_id>`: The subscription ID of the Azure subscription containing the storage accounts
- `<comma_separated_storage_account_names>`: A comma-separated list of the storage accounts you want to monitor. For example, `storageaccount1,storageaccount2`

[301]: https://shell.azure.com
[302]: /integrations/azure/#setup
[303]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-shell/get-started/classic?tabs=azurecli#select-your-shell-environment
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Azure Portal" %}}

> For Each Storage Account you wish to monitor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Each Storage Account you wish to monitor, follow all of the steps here:
```

#### Create a blob inventory policy
1. In the Azure portal, navigate to your Storage Account.

> 2. Go to **Data management** -> **Blob inventory**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to **Data management** > **Blob inventory**.
```

3. Click **Add**.
4. Configure the policy:
   - Name: **datadog-storage-monitoring**
   - Destination container:
      - Click **Create new**, and enter the name `datadog-storage-monitoring`.
   - Object type to inventory: **Blob**
   - Schedule: **Daily**
   - Blob types: Select **Block blobs**, **Append blobs**, and **Page blobs**.
   - Subtypes: Select **Include blob versions**
   - Schema fields: Select All, or ensure that at least the following are selected: 
      - **Name**
      - **Access tier**
      - **Last modified**
      - **Content length**
      - **Server encrypted**
      - **Current version status**
      - **Version ID**
   - Exclude prefix: datadog-storage-monitoring
5. Click **Add**.  

#### Add the role assignment
1. In the Azure portal, navigate to your Storage Account.

> 2. Go to **Data storage** -> **Containers**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to **Data storage** > **Containers**.
```

3. Click on the **datadog-storage-monitoring** container.
4. Click on **Access control (IAM)** in the left-hand menu.

> 5. Click **Add** -> **Add role assignment**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click **Add** > **Add role assignment**.
```

6. Fill out the role assignment:
    - Role: Select **Storage Blob Data Reader**. Click **Next**.
    - Assign access to: **User, group, or service principal**.
    - Members: Click **+ Select members** and search for your App Registration by its name and select it. 
    - **Note**: This should be an App Registration set up in the Datadog Azure integration. Keep in mind the Client ID for later.
7.  Click **Review + assign**.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Post-Installation

> Once you finish with the above steps, fill out the [post-setup form][310].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you finish with the above steps, fill out the [post-setup form][310].
```
